README.md, before:

# Chaschper

## History 

[Chaschper](https://github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chascher) is based on [Casper Two](https://github.com/eueung/hugo-casper-two), a port of the [Casper](https://github.com/TryGhost/Casper), the default personal blogging theme for Ghost. A legacy version (v1.x) has [already been ported](https://github.com/vjeantet/hugo-theme-casper) to Hugo years ago.

I simplified aspects of the Casper theme (removed the two different single page styles, cleaned up
partials and tried to organize things in a way that suited me better).

In addition, Chaschper features additional features:

* [IndieWeb](https://indieweb.org) integration
* [IndieAuth](https://indieauth.org) integration
* [Webmention.io](https://webmention.io/) integration
* Optional [Matomo](https://matomo.org) analytics (see installation instructions)


## Theme Demo

- [invisible.ch](https://invisible.ch/)

## Installation

Inside the folder of your Hugo site run:

    $ cd themes
    $ git clone https://github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chaschper.git chaschper
    
or if you plan to use [netlify](https://netlify.com) to host your site
   
    $ git submodule add https://github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chaschper.git themes/chaschper
   

For more information read the official [setup guide](//gohugo.io/overview/installing/) of Hugo.

### Matomo setup

If you want to use Matomo, install the Matomo theme:

    $ git submodule add https://github.com/holehan/hugo-components-matomo.git themes/matomo

## Sample Configuration

The following `config.toml` is used for the demo site. 

```toml
baseurl         = "https://invisible.ch/"
title           = "Invisible - Musings. Music. Code. Art"
theme           = [ "chaschper", "matomo" ]
languageCode    = "en-US"
disqusShortname = ""
paginate        = 6
canonifyurls    = true


[author]
    name    = "Jens-Christian Fischer"
    nick    = "jcfischer"
    email   = "jens-christian@invisible.ch"
    avatar  = ""
    description = "Maker. Musician"

[params]
  title       = "Invisible"
  subtitle    = "Musings. Music. Code. Art"
  copyright   = "© 2018"

  cover       = "img/blog-cover.jpg"
  description = "Portfolio and Blog of Jens-Christian Fischer"
  metaDescription = ""
  googleAnalytics = ""
  customCSS = []
  RSSLink = ""
  showSubcribe = true
  show_reading_time = true

  mainSections = ["musings", "music", "code", "art"]

  twitterName = "jcfischer"
  fbName = "JensChristianFischer"
  githubName = "jcfischer"
  linkedinName = "jenscfischer"
  keybaseName = "jcfischer"


  pageNotFoundTitle = "404 - Page not found"


[permalinks]
  posts = "/:year/:month/:slug/"

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Musings"
  url = "/categories/musings"
  weight = 200

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Music"
  url = "/categories/music"
  weight = 100

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Code"
  url = "/categories/code"
  weight = 99

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Art"
  url = "/categories/art"
  weight = 95

[[menu.main]]
  name = "About"
  url = "/about"
  weight = 90


# These are parameters used for indieweb identity. You should set these along
# with the above email/social network parameters.
[params.IndieWeb]
    Country = "Switzerland"
    City = "Zurich"
    webmention = "invisible.ch"

[params.matomo]
    url = "https://matomo.invisible.ch"
    id = 1

[params.matomo.track]
    button = "Enable Analytics"
    message = "Your visits will be logged."
[params.matomo.block]
    button = "Disable Analytics"
    message = "Your visits will *not* be logged."
```

Sample content structure is given in the `exampleSite` folder. Have fun!

## License

This theme is released under the MIT license. For more information read the [License](//github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chaschper/blob/master/LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

[ADD] Search box (using DuckDuckGo)
Layout is not optimal - will have to redo all of the header
(it isn't responive enough) - so I'll leave it for now

README.md, after:

# Chaschper

## History 

[Chaschper](https://github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chascher) is based on [Casper Two](https://github.com/eueung/hugo-casper-two), a port of the [Casper](https://github.com/TryGhost/Casper), the default personal blogging theme for Ghost. A legacy version (v1.x) has [already been ported](https://github.com/vjeantet/hugo-theme-casper) to Hugo years ago.

I simplified aspects of the Casper theme (removed the two different single page styles, cleaned up
partials and tried to organize things in a way that suited me better).

In addition, Chaschper features additional features:

* [IndieWeb](https://indieweb.org) integration
* [IndieAuth](https://indieauth.org) integration
* [Webmention.io](https://webmention.io/) integration
* Optional [Matomo](https://matomo.org) analytics (see installation instructions)


## Theme Demo

- [invisible.ch](https://invisible.ch/)

## Installation

Inside the folder of your Hugo site run:

    $ cd themes
    $ git clone https://github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chaschper.git chaschper
    
or if you plan to use [netlify](https://netlify.com) to host your site
   
    $ git submodule add https://github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chaschper.git themes/chaschper
   

For more information read the official [setup guide](//gohugo.io/overview/installing/) of Hugo.

### Matomo setup

If you want to use Matomo, install the Matomo theme:

    $ git submodule add https://github.com/holehan/hugo-components-matomo.git themes/matomo

## Sample Configuration

The following `config.toml` is used for the demo site. 

```toml
baseurl         = "https://invisible.ch/"
title           = "Invisible - Musings. Music. Code. Art"
theme           = [ "chaschper", "matomo" ]
languageCode    = "en-US"
disqusShortname = ""
paginate        = 6
canonifyurls    = true


[author]
    name    = "Jens-Christian Fischer"
    nick    = "jcfischer"
    email   = "jens-christian@invisible.ch"
    avatar  = ""
    description = "Maker. Musician"

[params]
  title       = "Invisible"
  domain      = "invisible.ch"
  subtitle    = "Musings. Music. Code. Art"
  copyright   = "© 2018"

  cover       = "img/blog-cover.jpg"
  description = "Portfolio and Blog of Jens-Christian Fischer"
  metaDescription = ""
  googleAnalytics = ""
  customCSS = []
  RSSLink = ""
  showSubcribe = true
  show_reading_time = true

  mainSections = ["musings", "music", "code", "art"]

  twitterName = "jcfischer"
  fbName = "JensChristianFischer"
  githubName = "jcfischer"
  linkedinName = "jenscfischer"
  keybaseName = "jcfischer"


  pageNotFoundTitle = "404 - Page not found"


[permalinks]
  posts = "/:year/:month/:slug/"

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Musings"
  url = "/categories/musings"
  weight = 200

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Music"
  url = "/categories/music"
  weight = 100

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Code"
  url = "/categories/code"
  weight = 99

[[menu.main]]
  name = "Art"
  url = "/categories/art"
  weight = 95

[[menu.main]]
  name = "About"
  url = "/about"
  weight = 90


# These are parameters used for indieweb identity. You should set these along
# with the above email/social network parameters.
[params.IndieWeb]
    Country = "Switzerland"
    City = "Zurich"
    webmention = "invisible.ch"

[params.matomo]
    url = "https://matomo.invisible.ch"
    id = 1

[params.matomo.track]
    button = "Enable Analytics"
    message = "Your visits will be logged."
[params.matomo.block]
    button = "Disable Analytics"
    message = "Your visits will *not* be logged."
```

Sample content structure is given in the `exampleSite` folder. Have fun!

### Search

This theme has a search function. It uses [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com) for a site
specific search (be sure to set the `domain` in `config.toml`)

To get DuckDuckGo to index your domain, submit it to the [Yandex Webmaster Tools](https://webmaster.yandex.com) -
after a few days, DuckDuckGo will have picked up the domain and the pages indexed by Yandex.


## License

This theme is released under the MIT license. For more information read the [License](//github.com/jcfischer/hugo-chaschper/blob/master/LICENSE.md).
